README.md, before:

# InsureShield - Insurance Portal

A sleek, modern insurance portal built with Next.js 16, shadcn/ui, and Tailwind CSS. Features a comprehensive dashboard for managing insurance policies, member details, and KYC verification.

## Features

- **Landing Page** - Modern hero section, features, stats, and CTA
- **Authentication** - Login with Member ID, signup with validation
- **Dashboard** - Policy overview with quick stats and KYC banner
- **Policy Management** - Detailed policy view with tabs for coverage and members
- **Dark/Light Mode** - Full theme support with smooth transitions
- **Responsive Design** - Works on all screen sizes
- **Mock API Layer** - Easy to replace with real backend

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: [Next.js 16](https://nextjs.org/) (App Router)
- **UI Components**: [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Styling**: [Tailwind CSS v4](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **State Management**: [Zustand](https://zustand-demo.pmnd.rs/)
- **Form Validation**: [Zod](https://zod.dev/)
- **Animations**: [Framer Motion](https://www.framer.com/motion/)
- **Icons**: [Lucide React](https://lucide.dev/)
- **Theme**: [next-themes](https://github.com/pacocoursey/next-themes)
- **Package Manager**: [Bun](https://bun.sh/)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Bun](https://bun.sh/) (recommended) or Node.js 18+

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd insure_agents_ui

# Install dependencies
bun install

# Copy environment variables
cp .env.example .env.local

# Start development server
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

### Demo Credentials

```
Sign-up for new user, and use email_id/member_id to login
```

## Testing KYC Verification Flow

Follow these steps to test the complete KYC verification process:

### Demo Files Location

Mock documents are available in `public/demo/`:

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `passport-IN.png` | Indian passport for identity verification |
| `visa-IN.png` | Valid Indian visa (for **SUCCESS** case) |
| `visa-N.png` | Non-valid visa (for **REJECTION** case) |
| `livephoto.jpg` | Live photo for facial verification |

### Step-by-Step Testing

#### 1. Sign Up
- Navigate to the **Sign Up** page
- Fill in your details (name, email, password, etc.)
- Complete registration

#### 2. Login
- Use your registered **email** or **member ID** to login
- Enter your password

#### 3. Start KYC Verification
- After login, you'll see a **KYC Pending** banner on the dashboard
- Click **"Start Verification"** button to begin the KYC process

#### 4. Upload Passport
- When prompted, upload `passport-IN.png` from `public/demo/`
- Wait for OCR extraction to complete

#### 5. Upload Visa & Live Photo

**For SUCCESS Case:**
- Upload `visa-IN.png` - Valid Indian visa
- Upload `livephoto.jpg` - Live photo
- The verification will be **APPROVED**

**For REJECTION Case:**
- Upload `visa-N.png` - Non-valid visa
- Upload `livephoto.jpg` - Live photo
- The verification will be **REJECTED**

### Quick Test Commands

```bash
# Start the development server
bun dev

# Open the app
# Navigate to http://localhost:3000
```

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router pages
│   ├── (auth)/             # Auth pages (login, signup)
│   ├── (dashboard)/        # Protected pages (dashboard, policies)
│   ├── layout.tsx          # Root layout with providers
│   ├── page.tsx            # Landing page
│   └── globals.css         # Global styles & CSS variables
│
├── components/
│   ├── ui/                 # shadcn/ui components
│   ├── layout/             # Header, Footer, DashboardNav, KycBanner
│   ├── landing/            # Hero, Features, Stats, CTA sections
│   ├── auth/               # Login & Signup forms
│   ├── dashboard/          # PolicyCard, QuickStats
│   └── policy/             # PolicyDetails, MemberDetails tabs
│
├── types/                  # TypeScript interfaces
│   ├── user.ts             # User, Address, KycStatus
│   ├── policy.ts           # Policy, PolicyMember, PolicySummary
│   └── api.ts              # API request/response types
│
├── api/                    # API layer
│   ├── client.ts           # API client with mock toggle
│   ├── auth.ts             # Auth API methods
│   ├── policies.ts         # Policies API methods
│   └── mock/               # Mock implementations
│       ├── handlers.ts     # Mock request handlers
│       ├── delay.ts        # Simulate network delay
│       └── data/           # Mock data (users, policies)
│
├── hooks/                  # Custom React hooks
│   ├── use-auth.ts         # Authentication hook
│   └── use-policies.ts     # Policies data hook
│
├── store/                  # Zustand stores
│   └── auth-store.ts       # Auth state management
│
├── providers/              # React context providers
│   └── theme-provider.tsx  # Dark/light theme provider
│
└── lib/                    # Utilities
    ├── utils.ts            # General utilities (cn)
    ├── constants.ts        # App constants & labels
    └── validations.ts      # Zod validation schemas
```

## Environment Variables

```env
# .env.local
NEXT_PUBLIC_USE_MOCK_API=true     # Set to false for real API
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_NAME=InsureShield
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:3000/api
```

## Connecting to Real API

The project uses a mock API layer that can be easily replaced with a real backend:

1. Set `NEXT_PUBLIC_USE_MOCK_API=false` in `.env.local`
2. Update `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` to your backend URL
3. The API client in `src/api/client.ts` will automatically use real endpoints

### Expected API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| POST | `/auth/login` | Login with memberId & password |
| POST | `/auth/signup` | Register new user |
| POST | `/auth/logout` | Logout user |
| GET | `/auth/me` | Get current user |
| GET | `/policies` | Get user's policies |
| GET | `/policies/:id` | Get policy details |
| GET | `/policies/:id/members` | Get policy members |

## Data Models

### User

```typescript
interface User {
  id: string;
  memberId: string;        // e.g., "INS2024001"
  email: string;
  firstName: string;
  lastName: string;
  phone: string;
  dateOfBirth: string;
  address: Address;
  kycStatus: 'pending' | 'verified' | 'rejected';
}
```

### Policy

```typescript
interface Policy {
  id: string;
  policyNumber: string;    // e.g., "HLT-2024-00001"
  type: 'health' | 'life' | 'auto' | 'home';
  name: string;
  status: 'active' | 'expired' | 'pending' | 'cancelled';
  coverageAmount: number;
  premiumAmount: number;
  premiumFrequency: 'monthly' | 'quarterly' | 'yearly';
  deductible: number;
  startDate: string;
  endDate: string;
  members: PolicyMember[];
}
```

## Adding New Features

### Adding a New Page

1. Create page in `src/app/(dashboard)/your-page/page.tsx`
2. Add navigation link in `src/components/layout/dashboard-nav.tsx`

### Adding New shadcn Components

```bash
bunx shadcn@latest add [component-name]
```

### Adding New API Endpoints

1. Add types in `src/types/`
2. Add mock handler in `src/api/mock/handlers.ts`
3. Add API method in `src/api/`

## KYC Integration

The portal includes a KYC banner that appears when `user.kycStatus === 'pending'`. To integrate your KYC flow:

1. Update the "Start Verification" button in `src/components/layout/kyc-banner.tsx`
2. Create KYC verification pages
3. Update user status via API after verification

## Scripts

```bash
bun dev        # Start development server
bun build      # Build for production
bun start      # Start production server
bun lint       # Run ESLint
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is proprietary software. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

docs: Revise README for KYC testing instructions
- Updated the README to clarify the sign-up process for new users and the login method using email or member ID.
- Added specific examples for valid and rejected KYC cases to enhance user understanding of the testing flow.

These changes improve the documentation for developers and users engaging with the KYC verification process.

README.md, after:

# InsureShield - Insurance Portal

A sleek, modern insurance portal built with Next.js 16, shadcn/ui, and Tailwind CSS. Features a comprehensive dashboard for managing insurance policies, member details, and KYC verification.

## Features

- **Landing Page** - Modern hero section, features, stats, and CTA
- **Authentication** - Login with Member ID, signup with validation
- **Dashboard** - Policy overview with quick stats and KYC banner
- **Policy Management** - Detailed policy view with tabs for coverage and members
- **Dark/Light Mode** - Full theme support with smooth transitions
- **Responsive Design** - Works on all screen sizes
- **Mock API Layer** - Easy to replace with real backend

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: [Next.js 16](https://nextjs.org/) (App Router)
- **UI Components**: [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Styling**: [Tailwind CSS v4](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **State Management**: [Zustand](https://zustand-demo.pmnd.rs/)
- **Form Validation**: [Zod](https://zod.dev/)
- **Animations**: [Framer Motion](https://www.framer.com/motion/)
- **Icons**: [Lucide React](https://lucide.dev/)
- **Theme**: [next-themes](https://github.com/pacocoursey/next-themes)
- **Package Manager**: [Bun](https://bun.sh/)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Bun](https://bun.sh/) (recommended) or Node.js 18+

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd insure_agents_ui

# Install dependencies
bun install

# Copy environment variables
cp .env.example .env.local

# Start development server
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

### Demo Credentials

```
Sign up for a new user and then log in with the new email or member ID.
- **Valid case:** Create one account and run the KYC flow with `visa-IN.png` (expects APPROVED).
- **Rejected case:** Create a second account and use `visa-N.png` (expects REJECTED). 
```

## Testing KYC Verification Flow

Follow these steps to test the complete KYC verification process:

### Demo Files Location

Mock documents are available in `public/demo/`:

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `passport-IN.png` | Indian passport for identity verification |
| `visa-IN.png` | Valid Indian visa (for **SUCCESS** case) |
| `visa-N.png` | Non-valid visa (for **REJECTION** case) |
| `livephoto.jpg` | Live photo for facial verification |

### Step-by-Step Testing

#### 1. Sign Up
- Navigate to the **Sign Up** page
- Fill in your details (name, email, password, etc.)
- Complete registration

#### 2. Login
- Use your registered **email** or **member ID** to login
- Enter your password

#### 3. Start KYC Verification
- After login, you'll see a **KYC Pending** banner on the dashboard
- Click **"Start Verification"** button to begin the KYC process

#### 4. Upload Passport
- When prompted, upload `passport-IN.png` from `public/demo/`
- Wait for OCR extraction to complete

#### 5. Upload Visa & Live Photo

**For SUCCESS Case:**
- Upload `visa-IN.png` - Valid Indian visa
- Upload `livephoto.jpg` - Live photo
- The verification will be **APPROVED**

**For REJECTION Case:**
- Upload `visa-N.png` - Non-valid visa
- Upload `livephoto.jpg` - Live photo
- The verification will be **REJECTED**

### Quick Test Commands

```bash
# Start the development server
bun dev

# Open the app
# Navigate to http://localhost:3000
```

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router pages
│   ├── (auth)/             # Auth pages (login, signup)
│   ├── (dashboard)/        # Protected pages (dashboard, policies)
│   ├── layout.tsx          # Root layout with providers
│   ├── page.tsx            # Landing page
│   └── globals.css         # Global styles & CSS variables
│
├── components/
│   ├── ui/                 # shadcn/ui components
│   ├── layout/             # Header, Footer, DashboardNav, KycBanner
│   ├── landing/            # Hero, Features, Stats, CTA sections
│   ├── auth/               # Login & Signup forms
│   ├── dashboard/          # PolicyCard, QuickStats
│   └── policy/             # PolicyDetails, MemberDetails tabs
│
├── types/                  # TypeScript interfaces
│   ├── user.ts             # User, Address, KycStatus
│   ├── policy.ts           # Policy, PolicyMember, PolicySummary
│   └── api.ts              # API request/response types
│
├── api/                    # API layer
│   ├── client.ts           # API client with mock toggle
│   ├── auth.ts             # Auth API methods
│   ├── policies.ts         # Policies API methods
│   └── mock/               # Mock implementations
│       ├── handlers.ts     # Mock request handlers
│       ├── delay.ts        # Simulate network delay
│       └── data/           # Mock data (users, policies)
│
├── hooks/                  # Custom React hooks
│   ├── use-auth.ts         # Authentication hook
│   └── use-policies.ts     # Policies data hook
│
├── store/                  # Zustand stores
│   └── auth-store.ts       # Auth state management
│
├── providers/              # React context providers
│   └── theme-provider.tsx  # Dark/light theme provider
│
└── lib/                    # Utilities
    ├── utils.ts            # General utilities (cn)
    ├── constants.ts        # App constants & labels
    └── validations.ts      # Zod validation schemas
```

## Environment Variables

```env
# .env.local
NEXT_PUBLIC_USE_MOCK_API=true     # Set to false for real API
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_NAME=InsureShield
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:3000/api
```

## Connecting to Real API

The project uses a mock API layer that can be easily replaced with a real backend:

1. Set `NEXT_PUBLIC_USE_MOCK_API=false` in `.env.local`
2. Update `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` to your backend URL
3. The API client in `src/api/client.ts` will automatically use real endpoints

### Expected API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| POST | `/auth/login` | Login with memberId & password |
| POST | `/auth/signup` | Register new user |
| POST | `/auth/logout` | Logout user |
| GET | `/auth/me` | Get current user |
| GET | `/policies` | Get user's policies |
| GET | `/policies/:id` | Get policy details |
| GET | `/policies/:id/members` | Get policy members |

## Data Models

### User

```typescript
interface User {
  id: string;
  memberId: string;        // e.g., "INS2024001"
  email: string;
  firstName: string;
  lastName: string;
  phone: string;
  dateOfBirth: string;
  address: Address;
  kycStatus: 'pending' | 'verified' | 'rejected';
}
```

### Policy

```typescript
interface Policy {
  id: string;
  policyNumber: string;    // e.g., "HLT-2024-00001"
  type: 'health' | 'life' | 'auto' | 'home';
  name: string;
  status: 'active' | 'expired' | 'pending' | 'cancelled';
  coverageAmount: number;
  premiumAmount: number;
  premiumFrequency: 'monthly' | 'quarterly' | 'yearly';
  deductible: number;
  startDate: string;
  endDate: string;
  members: PolicyMember[];
}
```

## Adding New Features

### Adding a New Page

1. Create page in `src/app/(dashboard)/your-page/page.tsx`
2. Add navigation link in `src/components/layout/dashboard-nav.tsx`

### Adding New shadcn Components

```bash
bunx shadcn@latest add [component-name]
```

### Adding New API Endpoints

1. Add types in `src/types/`
2. Add mock handler in `src/api/mock/handlers.ts`
3. Add API method in `src/api/`

## KYC Integration

The portal includes a KYC banner that appears when `user.kycStatus === 'pending'`. To integrate your KYC flow:

1. Update the "Start Verification" button in `src/components/layout/kyc-banner.tsx`
2. Create KYC verification pages
3. Update user status via API after verification

## Scripts

```bash
bun dev        # Start development server
bun build      # Build for production
bun start      # Start production server
bun lint       # Run ESLint
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is proprietary software. All rights reserved.
